
Data Set Metadata



Entry ID:

17579



Complete Data Set contains 43 columns, 165 rows, and 1 segment(s).



Name:

NHEXAS PHASE I REGION 5 STUDY--METALS IN BLOOD ANALYTICAL RESULTS


Abstract:

This data set includes analytical results for measurements of metals in 165
blood samples. These samples were collected to examine the relationships between
personal exposure measurements, environmental measurements, and body burden.
Venous blood samples were collected by venipuncture by a health care worker .
Samples were collected in vacutainers prepared by the Centers for Disease
Control (CDC). Whole blood samples were refrigerated and shipped cold to the
laboratory for analysis. Samples were analyzed by graphite furnace atomic
absorption spectrometry (GFAAS) for lead and cadmium. Samples were collected and
analyzed using procedures based on CDC methods described in the CDC Compendium
of Method Summaries for Collection and Analysis of Metals and VOCs in Blood and
Urine. Keywords: metals; biomarkers.
 
The National Human Exposure Assessment Survey (NHEXAS) is a federal
interagency research effort coordinated by the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA), Office of Research and Development (ORD). Phase I consists of
demonstration/scoping studies using probability-based sampling designs. The
Region 5 study was conducted in EPA's Region 5 (Ohio, Michigan, Illinois,
Indiana, Wisconsin, and Minnesota), and included personal exposure, residential
concentration, and biomarker measurements of metals and VOCs. The study was
conducted by the Research Triangle Institute (RTI) and the Environmental and
Occupational Health Sciences Institute (EOHSI). The scope and design of the
study are detailed in the following article: E. Pellizzari et al.,
Population-Based Exposure Measurements in EPA Region 5: A Phase I Field Study in
Support of the National Human Exposure Assessment Survey. Journal of Exposure
Analysis and Environmental Epidemiology, Vol. 5, No. 3, 1995, pp. 327-358.
 
NOTE: The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), through its Office of
Research and Development (ORD), partially funded and collaborated in the
research described here. Mention of trade names or commercial products does not
constitute endorsement or recommendation by EPA for use.


Data Use and Constraints:

NHEXAS is a rich source of data. EPA encourages you to use the data for research
and analysis. User familiarity with data file manipulation and analysis is
required. EPA does not have the resources to perform analyses, check results,
debug programs, or do literature review for your work. Thorough review of the
documentation on the survey's planning, analytic guidelines, and individual
datasets available through HEDS and EIMS should resolve most questions. If you
still have questions after careful review of the documentation, please contact
the Human Exposure and Atmospheric Sciences Division at (919) 541-3184 or send
an e-mail to "admin.heds@epa.gov". Please review the data use restrictions in
the Notice field (EIMS Summary page) and your agreement to comply with these
restrictions in using the data.
 
 These data are the result of a probability-based sampling design specific to
the population under study. Thus the data may or may not be representative of
subsets of this study's population or of other populations. The study was
designed to test certain hypotheses, and this may limit its applicability for
other purposes. When using these data it is important to consider the percentage
of non-responses or non-detects in the data as an indicator of its usefulness
for other purposes. No liability is accepted by the U.S. EPA for any errors or
omissions in the results included in the data sets, associated information,
and/or documentation.
 
 Based on the output format selected by the user and the software into which
the data set is imported, users may notice that measurements and sampling
weights are zero-padded to the right of non-zero decimal digits. These zeroes
are purely a function of the formatting process and the software's acceptance of
that format and should not be construed to represent significant digits in the
value. Measurement values are provided with four significant digits; sampling
weights are provided with three decimal digits.


Notice:

WARNING! DATA USE RESTRICTIONS
 
 Read Carefully Before Using


 
 The EPA does all it can to ensure that the
identity of survey participants cannot be disclosed.  All direct identifiers, as
well as any characteristics that might lead to identifications, are omitted from
the data.  Any intentional identification or disclosure of a person or
establishment violates the assurances of confidentiality given to the providers
of the information.  Therefore, users will (1) use the data in this study for
statistical reporting and analysis only; (2) make no use of the identity of any
person or establishment discovered inadvertently and will advise the HEDS
Administrator of any such discovery; (3) will not link this data with
individually identifiable data from other EPA or non-EPA data.
 
  By using the data you signify your agreement to comply with the above-stated
statutorily based requirements. 
 





Additional Information:

To access the data set, select the Downloads link on the navigation bar to the
left.  Then select the download entry "Download Data Set."
 
 Please review the "Data Use & Constraints" information by selecting the
Quality Assurance link to the left.



Version:

1.0


Version Description:

(Not currently available.)





For more information on the structure of the files included in this package,
please see the document "HEDS How To Use--Reference", accessible from the
HEDS Home Page.

